hi guys is Lincoln gets older I'm
constantly on the hunt for new ways to
not only entertain him but also to help
him learn today I'm going to show you
two really fun and creative
developmental games that you can make
right at home it'll get your kids
excited about learning I'm Brooke and
I'm passionate about making beautiful
things for my family on a budget this
first game is really great for
developing fine motor skills and best of
all you probably have everything you
need to make it already at home all
you're going to need is a shoebox a
piece of fabric a hot glue gun and pairs
of small objects the object of this game
is for children to reach inside the box
without being able to see and identify
various objects based on the way they
feel so first we're going to make the
box I'm just using an old shoebox and a
piece of fabric that I've already cut to
the size of the box and you're simply
going to drape it over the top and tape
down the sides make sure it's nice and
flat across the top and then we're going
to take our hot glue gun and secure the
edges so you're just going to continue
the same thing around the entire box
until all four sides are glued down and
then you're going to take the corners
and just fold them like you're wrapping
a present and secure those with the hot
glue gun as well our box is done all we
need to do is make a hole in the top for
little hands to reach inside I'm going
to use an exacto knife you can also use
just a pair of scissors you could also
just cut holes in the lid of the box but
I found that using the fabric gives
their hands a little more room to move
and now we're ready to put our goodies
in the box this game is really great for
tactile development and fine motor
skills and by doing everything in pairs
it adds a matching element so the child
reaches into the box pulls out an item
and then has to reach back in and find
the matching item another option is just
to put one of each object in the box
print out a picture with all the objects
on it and either glue it into the lid of
the shoebox or make a card for each item
in your child simply draws the card and
has to find the coordinating item this
option is really great because it
develops image recognition as well
either way it's a really fun and
creative game too let's give it a try
one block yay good job Lincoln Kimberly
this next game is really fun and it's
excellent for gross motor skill
you roll the dice and then choose a card
of that same color and then your child
performs the action on the card
stand up and walk on your tippy toes can
you walk on your tippy toes all your
going to need is a styrofoam block some
felt or foam squares a hot glue gun and
some cardstock I've already pre-cut the
foam so we're just going to attach one
piece to each side of the block I'm
using foam because I like the feel of it
but you can also use felt or just plain
paper how cute does this look now let's
make our cards I have six stacks of
cards corresponding to the colors on the
block and each color is going to be a
different category so this first one is
going to be actions if you don't have
colored cards you can use plain white
cardstock and just use a marker with the
corresponding color to draw something on
the back and we're done this game is
really great for teaching your kids to
follow instructions and takes turns and
the part I like the best is that you can
always add new cards and categories as
your child grows what color is that
hmm okay can you touch your ears yay
alright I hope you guys will give these
a try I think it's so important to get
kids excited about learning so tell me
in the comments below if you have any
tips or games that you like to play with
your little ones thanks so much for
watching don't forget to subscribe and
we'll see you next Friday
bye guys silly
you